### Post Mortem

Overall this was a fun project to work on and it gave me the chance to learn some new things along the way! Ultimately I had to make some tradeoffs though to stay within the 6-8 hour time limit given for the project. It was important to me to get the functionality of the app working first, so I considered the list view, the ability to add and remove books from the list, and the ability to view a book details page as the MVP for this project. I also wanted the UI components that I used in this application to be consistently styled with one another so I decided to use Material UI as the only external UI library. This was my first time working with Material UI so I ended up devoting some time reading their documentation in order to use the components and understand how they handled styling. In hindsight, I’m not sure if using a new library is ideal when you are working under time constraints because it did eat up some of my time that could have been spent completing other project features. However, I think using the Material UI components did lead to a more polished product.

While I am pleased with the app that I completed, I also know this project has plenty of room for continuous improvement. My intent was to complete all the basic requirements as well as the switchable layouts and category categorization enhancements. I did add a toggle switch to the app header that toggles the layout between grid and list view. I also added a categories input in the form to add books to the wishlist with the intent to collect that data for a sorting feature. Lastly, I used a book icon image above each book in the list because I thought it looked more aesthetic, but that could be easily swapped out for a URL prop to actually show different book images for each book.

Given that the majority of my previous experience is with creating sharable React components, I have less experience building single-page applications and dealing with page routing. My original plan was to leave the linkablity feature to the end and I planned on using React Router to create different URL paths for the detail pages of the books with the title of the book as the query parameter. Unfortunately, I did not have sufficient time to dig into how to properly integrate React Router with the way I had already set up my application. If given more time I would spend it to get a deeper understanding of React Router and potentially restructure my app composition to support the routes if needed. The lesson I learned here is that I should not have waited until the end to look into adding the routing and I could have used the Router to conditionally render the details pages rather than using state.

As I hinted above, I do not believe this project is production-ready. Aside from the missing features, this project also needs more unit tests. I also want to call out that local storage, which is used to store the book data for this app, has space limitations and would not be able to support an infinite collection of books. I also did not handle form validation within the form that is used to add new books. Currently, the form accepts empty fields and does not check that the required fields are actually filled in, so adding validation would prevent that. One area that could use design improvement is the navigation from the book details page back to the book wishlist page. I used a back button approach that was inspired more by mobile navigation design. I have a feeling this is not the ideal way to navigate within a single-page app and perhaps a navbar or some other alternative would be better suited. If I was to redo this project I would start by first taking a look at some other single-page applications to get an understanding of common design patterns and use that as inspiration for how to restructure the navigation within my single-page app.
